Coral reefs and tide pools in Indo-West Pacific from Japan to northern Australia
"Open waters of tropical and warm-temperate seas, primarily pelagic in coastal and oceanic habitats"
Coral reefs and sandy flats in tropical Indo-Pacific from intertidal zone to 62m depth
Shallow coral reefs in Indo-West Pacific from Pakistan to New Guinea at depths not exceeding 15m
"Shallow inshore waters of tropical coral reefs in Indo-Pacific, typically only few meters deep with dorsal fin often exposed"
"Coral reef habitats in Indo-Pacific, around coral heads and ledges with high vertical relief, clear water at 8-40m depth"
"Muddy or sandy flats in enclosed bays and estuaries along Pacific coast from Oregon to Mexico, most abundant intertidal to 4m depth"
"Shallow coastal waters by coral reefs and bays in tropical Atlantic Ocean, swimming freely in open waters often near surface"
"Tropical and subtropical waters worldwide, pelagic species migrating across open oceans, surface waters during day and deeper at night"
"Sand and mudflats, rocky coral reefs, and seagrass beds in tropical Indo-Pacific waters from Indonesia to Japan and northern Australia, depths 0-90m"
"Coral reefs and adjacent sandy flats in tropical Indo-Pacific from intertidal zone to 30m depth, common in tidal pools and near seagrass beds"
"Sandy or muddy sea floors near reefs and underwater structures in western Indo-Pacific, 3–90 m depth."
Sandy bottoms and shallow coastal waters from central California to Gulf of California.
"Lagoons, sheltered rocky and coral reefs, often near sponges or structures, tropical Indo-Pacific, 1–70 m depth."
"Sheltered rocky and coral reefs, often near sponges, Indo-Pacific, Red Sea to Hawaii, 0–75 m depth (average 15 m)."
"Coral reefs, sandy bottoms, lagoons; Indo-Pacific (East Africa, Society Islands, Japan, Australia); depth 0–30 m (most common 0–2 m)."
"Outer slopes of coral reefs, crevices; Indo-West Pacific (East Africa, Red Sea, Papua New Guinea, Japan, Great Barrier Reef); depth 1–50 m."
"Protected areas of outer coral reefs, lagoons, harbors; Indo-Pacific (Madagascar to Polynesia, Japan to New Caledonia); depth 0–50 m."
"Lagoons and outer slopes of coral reefs, crevices, Indo-Pacific (East Africa, Red Sea, Hawaii, Polynesia, Japan, New Caledonia, Fiji, Austral Islands), 1–50 m depth."
"Shallow, turbid lagoons, protected reefs, debris-rich areas, Indo-Pacific (India, Maldives, Polynesia, Japan, Australia, New Caledonia), surface to 35 m depth."
"Sandy burrows in colonies near coral reefs, Indo-Pacific (Red Sea, East Africa, Japan, Indonesia, Australia), 7–45 m depth."
"Sandy burrows, caves, and coral reefs in Indo-Pacific (East Africa, Japan, Australia, French Polynesia), lagoons and reef slopes, 3–60 m depth."
"Lagoons, coral and rocky reefs, seaweed fields, pinnacles, wrecks, open water; circumtropical (Atlantic, Indian, Pacific Oceans)."
"Reefs, lagoons, estuaries, tidepools; Indo-Pacific (Red Sea to eastern Pacific), 3–35 m depth."
"Reef drop-offs, sheltered lagoons, tropical/subtropical Indo-Pacific (Indian Ocean to western Pacific), surface to 30 m depth."
"External reef slopes, lagoons, tropical Indo-Pacific (Indian Ocean to central Pacific, except Red Sea), surface to 25 m depth."
"External reef slopes, sheltered lagoons, sandy areas, tropical/subtropical Indo-Pacific (Indian Ocean, Red Sea, Polynesia, Japan, Australia, Lord Howe Island), surface to 58 m depth."
"Coral reefs, lagoons, and external reef slopes in Indo-Pacific, Red Sea, East Africa, and Japan; prefers depths of 2–50 m, adults favor rocky/branching coral, juveniles softer substrates."
"External reef slopes with clear water in tropical/subtropical Indian and western Pacific Oceans; adults to 75 m, juveniles below 20 m near caves/overhangs."
"Lagoons and coral reefs throughout Indo-Pacific (except Hawaii), to depths of 50 m; nests in flat sandy areas, highly territorial during breeding."
"Tropical/subtropical oceans globally, including Mediterranean; juveniles pelagic to 20 cm, adults in lagoons, coral/rocky reefs, 1–50 m depth, sheltering under ledges/caves."
"Open waters and current-swept seaward reefs in tropical Indo-Pacific, 0–35 m depth; often seen circling in groups near the surface."
"Coral and rocky reefs in Pacific, Indian, and SE Atlantic oceans; solitary, found at depths of 1–40 m."
"Coral and rocky reefs in Indian and Pacific Oceans, 1–30 m depth."
"Coral reefs, lagoons, and coastal waters in Indo-Pacific (Red Sea, South Africa, Japan, Indonesia, Philippines, Samoa); found at depths of 2–50 m."
"Reef-associated, coastal waters, shallow lagoons, and seaward reefs in Indo-Pacific (Red Sea, South Africa, Society Islands, Japan, Australia, New Caledonia); found at depths of 30–50 m."
"Seaward reefs and shallow lagoons in tropical Indo-West Pacific; solitary, found near coral at depths of 2–30 m."
"Coral, pebble, and rock bottoms on reef flats, outer reefs, lagoons, and caves in Indo-West Pacific (Red Sea, Indonesia, Australia); found at depths of 1–80 m."
"Rocky reefs, caves, and crevices in western Indo-Pacific (South Africa, Red Sea, Indonesia, Society Islands, Ryukyu Islands, Australia, New Caledonia); found at depths of 1–25 m."
"Coral reefs, rocky areas, lagoons in Indo-Pacific (native) and Atlantic/Caribbean (invasive); found at depths of 1–50 m."
"Seabed among rubble, seaweed-covered rocks, or coralline algae on reef flats, lagoons, and seaward reefs; Indian and Pacific Oceans from Africa and Red Sea to Japan, Hawaii, Australia, and New Caledonia; depths to 70 m."
Reef slopes and coral areas in Indian and Pacific Oceans; found at depths of 1–35 m; often in shallow waters where swimmers may encounter them.
"Shallow, clear coastal waters and flat top reefs in tropical Indian Ocean; prefers areas along seaward slopes; always associated with coral reefs."
Sheltered reefs and shallow lagoons in tropical Indian Ocean and Western Pacific; lives in symbiosis with all ten host sea anemone species; most widely distributed anemonefish.
"Sheltered reefs and lagoons in Western Pacific (Japan, South China Sea, Malaysia, Indonesia); associated mainly with bubble-tip anemone (Entacmaea quadricolor), sometimes sebae anemone (Heteractis crispa). Territorial and aggressive when mature."
"Outer reef slopes and sheltered lagoons in Eastern Indian Ocean and Western Pacific (Northern Australia, Southeast Asia, Japan); lives in symbiosis with Heteractis magnifica, Stichodactyla gigantea, and Stichodactyla mertensii; found to 15 m depth."
"Reef lagoons and outer reef slopes in Indo-Pacific (Northern Australia, Malay Archipelago, Melanesia, Ryukyu Islands, Sumatra); depths 3–65 m; often shares host anemones with other species."
"Clear outer lagoons, seaward reefs, and branching coral habitats in Indian and Pacific Oceans (Red Sea to Samoa, Yaeyama Islands to Great Barrier Reef); juveniles in lagoons and seagrass beds; adults to 30 m depth."
Mid-water in deep lagoons and near external reefs in tropical Indo-Pacific (African coast to Indonesia); found from surface to 50 m depth; forms schools with other caesionids.
"Inshore lagoons, rocky and coral reefs, seagrass beds, and deep sand banks in tropical/subtropical Indo-Pacific (South Africa to Japan, Australia, Palau, Tonga); found to 100 m depth; intolerant of low salinity."
"Coral and rocky reefs, lagoons, estuaries, embayments, tidal flats, offshore atolls in tropical/subtropical Indo-Pacific (South Africa to Hawaii, Japan, Australia); juveniles in rivers and lakes; adults to depths >80 m."
"Bays, lagoons, coral and rocky reefs, sand flats, seagrass meadows, estuaries, and offshore atolls in tropical/subtropical Indo-Pacific (East Africa to Central America, Japan, Australia, Hawaii); juveniles inshore, adults deeper to 183 m."
"Coral and rocky reefs, bays, lagoons, estuaries, sandy flats, offshore islands, and seamounts in tropical/subtropical Indo-Pacific (South Africa to California, Ecuador, Japan, Australia, Hawaii); juveniles inshore, adults to 100 m depth."
"Coral reefs, rocky areas, and lagoons in tropical Indo-Pacific (Red Sea, East Africa, Japan, Australia, Hawaii); prefers coral heads and crevices; invasive in Hawaii; found at depths of 2–40 m."
"Clear coastal and offshore coral reefs, caves, and ledges in Indo-Pacific (Red Sea, East Africa, Japan, Australia, Indian Ocean islands, west-central Pacific); prefers exposed areas; found at depths of 2–150 m."
"Seaward and lagoon coral reefs from Indonesia to Fiji, Tonga, southern Japan, New Caledonia, and Australia; prefers areas with abundant Acropora corals."
"Coral reefs from Persian Gulf and Maldives to Japan, Philippines, and Indonesia; prefers depths of 3–15 m, often near branching corals."
"Coral reefs, rubble, and rocky areas from Maldives, India, Sri Lanka, Andaman Sea to western Indonesia; found at depths of 2–25 m."
"Coral-rich seaward and lagoon reefs from East Africa to Line Islands, Ryukyu Islands, Great Barrier Reef, Micronesia, Galapagos; depths 2–25 m."
Sheltered inshore and lagoon reefs among corals; depth range 3–20 m.
"Lagoons, reef flats, and seaward reefs; depth range 1–20 m."
"Coral reefs, channels, reef slopes; juveniles in dense coral/seagrass, adults 1–100 m depth."
"Clear lagoons and seaward reefs, prefers dead or silty areas; depth range 2–40 m."
"Tropical Indo-Pacific reefs and lagoons; prefers shallow coral areas, especially with Acropora; depth range 1–50 m."
Reefs across Indo-Pacific from Red Sea to Australia; prefers unfished or protected reef areas; depth 5–150 m.
Coral reefs in Indo-Pacific and eastern Pacific; commonly found at depths of 2–40 m.
"Tropical Indo-Pacific reefs; juveniles in shallow areas, adults near drop-offs and seamounts; depth varies widely."
"Clear lagoons and seaward reefs, Indo-Pacific (Red Sea to French Polynesia); depth 1–30 m."
Outer reef slopes and channels across the Indo‑Pacific; depth range 2–178 m.
"Outer reef slopes and channels, Indo‑Pacific; depth range 5–210 m (commonly 5–30 m)."
Offshore coral reefs and inshore waters; depth range 0–96 m.
"Coral reefs, lagoons, estuaries; depth range 2–40 m (commonly 3–20 m)."
Coral reefs across Indo-Pacific; depth 6–70 m (usually 6–28 m); hovers above substrate.
"Coral reefs in Indo-Pacific: Philippines, Indonesia, Japan, Australia, New Caledonia, Samoa, East Africa, Sri Lanka; depth range 2–40 m."
Coral and rocky reefs in Indo-Pacific; perches on corals and rocks; depth range 1–40 m.
"Juveniles among debris, mangroves, inner reefs; adults on reefs and offshore up to depth of 70 m; schools under Sargassum or shipwrecks."
Coral and rock reefs in Indian Ocean and western Pacific; depth range 2–25 m.
"Coastal rocky coral reefs, caves, wrecks; Indo-West Pacific from East Africa to southern Japan, Indonesia, New Guinea, New Caledonia; depth range 3–30 m."
Coral reefs and lagoons; depth range 1–100 m (commonly 3–60 m).
Coral-rich lagoons and outer reef slopes across Indo-Pacific; depth range 5–30 m.
"Coral-rich lagoons and seaward reefs across Indo-Pacific; depth range 0–110 m, commonly 3–60 m."
"Coastal reefs, rocky shores, brackish lagoons and seagrass beds; depths 2–20 m."
"Open seas, coral reefs, mangroves, and seagrasses worldwide in tropical/subtropical waters; depths from surface to 110 m, average daytime ~4 m."
Reef lagoons and slopes across Indo‑West Pacific and Mediterranean; depth range 2–25 m.
"Reef-associated, estuaries, bays, lagoons; Indo-West Pacific from Red Sea to Vanuatu and Tonga."
Coral reefs from the Red Sea and East Africa to French Polynesia; depth range 0–100 m.
"Tropical to subtropical reefs and lagoons; depths from 1 to 182 meters; found from East Africa, Indian Ocean, Pacific Islands to Hawaii and southern Japan."
"Tropical Indo-Pacific waters, including the Red Sea; depths 3–90 m."
"Shallow warm waters of Indian and West Pacific Oceans, from East Africa and Red Sea to Indonesia, China, Ryukyu Islands, Australia, and Samoa; depth range 20–90 m."
Tropical western Atlantic Ocean from Florida to Brazil; depth range 2–25 m.
"Reef edges, seagrass beds and gorgonians from Red Sea to Tonga; depth range 3–35 m (occasionally to 50 m)."