"Concave posterior margined dorsal fin, barbels (whiskers), adults brownish with faint bands, juveniles with distinct dark transverse bands and spots, nocturnal behavior"
"Massive size with mouth at front of head containing 300+ rows of tiny teeth and 20 filter pads, dark grey skin with white spots and stripes unique to each individual, thick skin up to 15cm, three prominent ridges along sides"
"Cylindrical body with five longitudinal ridges, low caudal fin nearly half total length, juveniles have vertical yellow stripes on brown background, adults have dark spots on pale background, small barbels near nostrils"
"Very slender cylindrical body, short narrow head, black and white spots on grayish background often forming horizontal dashes, white tips on dorsal fins, white stripe through gill slits, adult males have long thin claspers"
"Robustly built with streamlined form, short wide rounded snout, moderately large oval eyes, pale grayish-brown above and white below with obvious white band on sides, all fins have distinctive black tips with lighter borders"
"Slender body with short broad head, flattened blunt snout with tubular skin flaps beside nostrils, oval eyes with vertical pupils, grayish to brownish above and white below with scattered dark spots, bright white fin tips"
"Moderately stout body with short rounded snout, large oval eyes, unique coloration with prominent black saddles and large black spots on silvery to bronzy gray background, whitish underside"
"Flat disk-shaped body with deep blue or black coloration and white spots on top, white underbelly, distinctive flat snout like duck's bill, long wing-like pectoral fins, tail longer than body with 2-6 venomous spines"
"Broad head with triangular pectoral fins, horn-shaped cephalic fins on either side of mouth, horizontally flattened body, typically black or dark dorsally with pale shoulder markings, white or pale ventrally with distinctive dark markings"
"Flat disc-like rhomboid body, dark green coloration with blue spots and light white underbelly, very short and broadly angular snout, bright yellow eyes, very long tail with two venomous spines, spiracles behind eyes"
"Oval pectoral fin disc, large protruding eyes, thick depressed tail with deep fin fold underneath, striking coloration of numerous circular neon blue spots on yellowish brown or green background, two blue stripes on tail, bright yellow eyes, white belly"
"Wide thick body, rounded snout, large dorsal and tail fins, W-shaped mouth, thorny ridges on head and back, bluish gray to brown with white spots, black markings over pectoral fins, crescent-shaped caudal fin, grainy dorsal texture."
"Flattened body, elongated snout resembling a shovel, two dorsal fins, shark-like tail, grayish to brown coloration, ventral side pale, large eyes, robust pectoral fins, magnetic particles in vestibular system, advanced visual system."
"Globular extensible body, soft skin with spinules, wartlike protuberances, variable color (grey, black, cream, pink, yellow, red, brown), large prognathous mouth, modified illicium with esca, angled pectoral fins, small eye spots, up to 38 cm."
"Globular extensible body, soft skin with spinules, wart-like protuberances, many ocelli, large prognathous mouth, modified illicium with esca, angled pectoral fins, color ranges from white to black, cream, pink, yellow, red, brown, three eye spots on caudal fin."
"Eel-like, cylindrical body; snout very short; jaws elongate; small eyes placed forward; dorsal fin arises well behind pectoral tips; teardrop-shaped pectoral fins; numerous labial cirri; flesh above and behind eye elevated as a ridge; conical teeth; dark spots on head and body."
"Eel-like, compressed body; white to yellowish background with numerous black spots (honeycomb pattern); spots vary by environment; large mouth; no pectoral fins; dorsal fin runs length of body; aggressive in large adults."
"Eel-like, oval cross-section; white cream to light brown body with numerous black spots; head greenish-yellow with black dots, tapered snout, white mouth corners; spots larger in juveniles; dorsal fin runs length of body."
"Elongated brownish body, adults with black specks grading into leopard-like spots behind the head, juveniles tan with large black spots, large mouth, no pectoral fins, dorsal fin runs length of body."
"Serpentine body, brown-yellowish background with many small dark spots, head grey to brownish with distinctive white eyes, slender form, no pectoral fins, dorsal fin runs length of body."
"Slender, elongated body up to 40 cm long and 14 mm diameter, white to pale yellow with numerous small black spots, pointed snout, small mouth, large eyes, tail tapers to a fine point."
"Long, thin body resembling a mythical dragon, high dorsal fin, expanded anterior nostrils, color varies by age and sex (black with yellow dorsal, blue, or yellow), adult males 65–94 cm, females up to 130 cm."
"Elongated oval, strongly compressed body; olive-brown or grey with irregular blue lines and spots, black spots on head; small mouth at pointed snout; no pelvic fin; two dorsal spines (one long, erectile); rounded, fan-like caudal fin; juveniles yellow with black spots."
"Light grey, greyish, or yellowish body with regular white spots; concentric white and dark grey lines radiate around eyes and pectoral fins; ventral side white; dark shoulder; robust, rounded body; small mouth; no pelvic fins."
"Oval, spherical yet elongated body; whitish background with dense network of black, brown, or greenish broken lines; irradiant lines from eyes; short snout with two pairs of nostrils; terminal mouth with four strong teeth; no pelvic fin or lateral line; small dorsal and anal fins."
"Oval, spherical yet elongated body; variable coloration (grey, brown, blue, yellow, orange, bi-color); dark blotches on skin; dark around eyes and mouth; short snout with two pairs of nostrils; terminal mouth with four strong teeth; no pelvic fin or lateral line; small dorsal and anal fins."
"Oval, spherical, elongated body; prickly skin; white to grey with black spots (spot size inversely proportional to fish size); ventral area clearer; large head, short snout with two pairs of nostrils; terminal mouth with four strong teeth; no pelvic fin or lateral line; small dorsal and anal fins; juveniles yellowish with dark stripes."
"Stocky, oval, laterally compressed body; dark brown to green with orange lines; large head; small terminal mouth with strong teeth; three-spined dorsal fin (first spine long, erectile); orange caudal fin; block spot near peduncular spines; sexual dimorphism in snout and size."
"Stocky, oval, laterally compressed body; large head; small terminal mouth with strong teeth; three-spined dorsal fin (first spine long, erectile); black body with large white spots on lower half; yellowish network near dorsal fin; yellow ring around mouth; white stripe under eyes; yellow and black caudal fin; juveniles with small white spots."
"Robust, oval, laterally compressed body; large head; small terminal mouth with strong teeth; three-spined dorsal fin (first spine long, erectile); greenish to yellowish body with dark bands; prominent moustache-like markings; strong jaws; up to 75 cm long."
"Elongated body, spherical head, large protruding eyes, big mouth, large pectoral fins, no pelvic fins, anal and dorsal fins near caudal peduncle, beige to sandy-yellow with dark blotches and small black spots, skin with spines, inflates when threatened."
"Dark blue body, blue-green fins with yellow and light blue trim, lyre-shaped caudal fin with yellow bar, small pectoral fins, retractable dorsal spine, red teeth, streamlined shape, up to 50 cm long."
"Box-shaped body; juveniles bright yellow with black spots, adults blue-grey with faded yellow; small mouth; rigid bony carapace; rounded fins; releases toxins from skin; up to 45 cm long."
"Box-shaped body; males blackish with white spots, blue sides, yellow bands and spots; females/juveniles dark brown to blackish with white spots; small mouth; rigid bony carapace; rounded fins; up to 25 cm long."
"Stocky, oval, laterally compressed body; olive to brownish with yellow margins on fins; large head; small terminal mouth with strong teeth; three-spined dorsal fin (first spine long, erectile); yellow facial markings; up to 60 cm long."
"Stocky, oval, laterally compressed body; brown with yellow margins on fins; juveniles yellowish brown with blue wavy lines; large head; small terminal mouth with strong teeth; three-spined dorsal fin (first spine long, erectile); up to 55 cm long."
"Oval, laterally compressed body; brown to grey with yellowish fins; halfmoon-shaped caudal fin; small mouth with strong teeth; blue lines on face; yellow pectoral and caudal fins; up to 25 cm long."
"Stocky body with vertical orange, white, and black stripes; large, banded fan-like pectoral fins; 13 tall, quill-like venomous dorsal spines; rounded caudal fin; banded anal and dorsal fins; up to 24 cm long."
"Reddish-brown body with six vertical dark bands separated by thin white lines; clear, unbanded pectoral and other fins; 12–13 long venomous dorsal spines; two horizontal white stripes on caudal peduncle; up to 24 cm long."
"Elongated body with alternating red/maroon/brown and white stripes; large, fan-like venomous spines; long pectoral fins; dorsal, anal, and pelvic spines protrude like a mane; juveniles under 1 cm, adults up to 47 cm."
"Broad head with wide mouth, humped back, tapering body; rough skin with conical projections, spines, and tassels; mottled grey, white, and reddish-brown blotches; 12 venomous dorsal spines; large pectoral fins with orange, black, and white blotches; well-camouflaged among stones and corals."
"Broad, bearded head with numerous tassels below jaw; rough, spiny skin; variable coloration (brown, red, yellow, green, mottled); small scales; large pectoral fins; dorsal fin with venomous spines; cryptic appearance among coral and rocks."
"Oval, laterally compressed body; powder blue sides; yellow dorsal fin and caudal base; black head; white mouth, throat, anal and pelvic fins; transparent pectoral fins with yellow reflections; crescent-shaped caudal fin; small, pointed mouth with sharp teeth; surgeon's scalpel at tail base."
"Stocky, oval to rounded body; laterally compressed; vivid black, white, and yellow stripes; two vertical white bands (behind eye, above anus); orange-yellow ventral side; black dorsal; white caudal peduncle; forked caudal fin; snout orange or pinkish; dorsal and caudal fins orange-yellow; color varies by sex, age, and host anemone."
"Oval, laterally compressed body; bright orange-red overall; single white vertical head bar outlined in black; females darker with blackish sides; males smaller and red; juveniles darker red with two or three white bars; 9–10 dorsal spines, 2 anal spines, 16–18 dorsal soft rays, 13–15 anal soft rays."
"Oval, laterally compressed body; orange to reddish-brown or black; three vertical white bands outlined in black (behind eye, mid-body, caudal peduncle); fins outlined in black; taller dorsal fin (11 spines); females larger than males; up to 11 cm long."
"Oval, laterally compressed body; pink to peach coloration; white stripe along dorsal ridge; single white head bar behind eye; up to 10 cm; no color variation by sex or location."
"Large, robust body; vertical head profile; bulbous forehead; exposed teeth plates; scales cover body except leading edge of head; color shifts from gray with white spots to dark green; up to 1.5 m; no sex-based color change."
"Fusiform body; small, terminal, protrusible mouth; bright yellow zone from forehead to tail including dorsal and caudal fins; greyish blue sides; white belly; deeply forked caudal fin; dorsal fin with 10 spines, 14–15 soft rays; up to 40 cm."
"Elongated, subcylindrical body; steep dorsal profile; mouth beneath eye; silver with golden spots above lateral line; dorsal and anal fins dusky yellow; pectoral and caudal fins olive-yellow; up to 1.2 m; juveniles more ovate, adults more elongated."
"Ovate, moderately compressed body; steep head profile; strong tail scutes; silvery-grey, males may be jet-black; fins light grey to black, sometimes yellowish; forked caudal fin; falcate pectoral fins; up to 170 cm; sexual dimorphism in color above 50 cm."
"Oblong, compressed body; pointed snout; silvery-brassy upper body fading to white underside; electric blue dorsal, anal, and caudal fins; white pelvic and yellowish pectoral fins; blue-black spots on upper flanks; forked caudal fin; up to 117 cm."
"Compressed, oblong body; slightly pointed snout; silvery blue above, white below; juveniles with 5–6 dark vertical bars; adults lose bars, show silvery olive to blue-green; dark second dorsal fin with white tip; small dark opercular spot; forked caudal fin; up to 120 cm."
"Dark brown body with numerous small, dark-edged iridescent blue spots; larger individuals may show 4–6 pale vertical bars on the back half; robust, oval body; large mouth; rounded fins; up to 60 cm long."
"Orange-red to reddish brown body with many small bright blue spots on head, body, and fins; rounded, robust body; flat to slightly convex head profile; juveniles orange to yellow with fewer blue spots; up to 50 cm long."
"Laterally compressed, high-backed body; alternating cream and grey-brown chevron bars; three dark head bars including one through the eye; maximum length 16 cm."
"Laterally compressed, oval body; brown to black with lighter spotted scales; prominent vertical white streak behind eyes, dark stripe over eyes, smaller white stripe in front; bright red tail base, black band, diffuse white tip; up to 18 cm."
"Laterally compressed, oval body; white with two areas of oblique black lines; yellowish hindpart; black vertical bar through eye; yellow caudal fin; up to 20 cm long."
"Laterally compressed, oval body; whitish or blue-white with curved to oblique black bands; yellow-edged black bar through eye and snout; up to 20 cm long."
White body with yellowish belly; 7 black vertical stripes on body and 1 on snout; up to 12 cm.
"Yellow body with dark lattice pattern, black eye stripe and caudal line; grows up to 18 cm."
Largest wrasse species; males up to 2 m and 190 kg; thick lips and forehead hump; color varies with age and sex.
"Laterally compressed body, humped back, long snout; grey to beige with black spots; juveniles swim head-down; max 70 cm."
Light brown body with brown hexagonal spots forming a net-like pattern; max length 32 cm.
Robust body with irregular dark blotches on pale skin; can grow up to 260 cm and 110 kg.
"Bright yellow body, long narrow snout, black face with white spot near mouth; up to 22 cm in length."
"Streamlined body, blue-green back, silver sides, white belly, two white-tipped dorsal fins; commonly 40–120 cm, max 250 cm."
Juveniles are silvery with black-red blotches and eye stripe; adults have a checkerboard scale pattern with pink lines and yellow dorsal spots; up to 27 cm.
"Compressed body with extended dorsal filament; white background with two black diagonal bands, yellow fins; max 25 cm, common 15 cm."
"Compressed body with extended dorsal filament; white background with two black diagonal bands, yellow fins; max 21 cm."
Silver body with yellow stripe; fusiform shape; max 35 cm.
"Fusiform, compressed body up to 60 cm; bulbous hump on snout; 5 dorsal spines, 27–30 soft rays."
Bright yellow head fading to white body and red-orange tail; long dorsal fin; reaches 9 cm.
"Royal blue body, yellow tail, black palette design, flat circular shape, pointed snout, small scales; up to 30 cm, ~600 g."
"White body, black sides, red/yellow markings, robust head, thick lips, perches on corals; up to 22 cm."
Circular to triangular compressed body with dark blotches beneath pectoral and above anal fin; changes colour; max length 65–70 cm.
Juveniles are black-striped; adults have black dots on yellow tail. Can reach up to 72 cm in length.
"Deeply compressed body, small mouth; adults dark orange to brown/violet with blue ring near head and blue semicircular marks; juveniles dark blue with turquoise and white vertical stripes; up to 45 cm, usually 30 cm."
"Compressed body with blue/yellow horizontal stripes and dark mask; commonly 30–40 cm, max 40 cm."
Compressed body up to 38 cm; blue body with yellow edges forming reticulated pattern; juveniles with vertical bands; large yellow fins edged with blue.
"Compressed, colorful body with alternating blue-white and orange stripes; max length 25 cm."
"Laterally compressed body 25–55 cm (common ~30 cm); bronze-grey with white spots and wavy stripes; venomous dorsal, anal, and pelvic spines."
"Elongated body, powerful underbite jaw with fanglike teeth; commonly 60–100 cm and 2.5–9 kg, max up to 200 cm and 50 kg; forked tail, two dorsal fins."
"Elongated body with two separated dorsal fins; yellow‑edged caudal fin; grey dorsally, white underside; common length 40 cm, max 60 cm."
"Slender body with ~20 wavy/oblique bars; underbite jaw; common length ~120 cm, max 150 cm."
Slender body with distinctive chevron markings; reaches up to 140 cm; black-tipped fins.
"Disk-like body with black, white, and yellow bands; long tubular snout with bristle-like teeth; sickle-shaped dorsal fin extension; maximum length 23 cm."
Reaches up to 10 cm; body morphology characteristic of Pegasidae; small size and unusual form.
"Moderately deep body, head longer than body depth; thin dark (golden in fresh) bands on upper body; black spot near pectoral fin; yellowish fins with black-tipped dorsals; max length 35 cm, commonly 25 cm."
"Slender, tubular body up to 100 cm, with small jaws at the end of a long snout; barbel on chin; variable color (brown, yellow, green, blue-gray); dorsal and anal fins set far back; capable of color change for camouflage."
"Armored, slender body up to 12 cm; tubular snout, elliptic shape; highly color-variable; females ~13 cm, males ~37% smaller."